[DOC-832] Copy catalog flags to 2.20 (#27789)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/v2.20/best-practices-operations/administration.md

---
title: Best practices for YSQL database administrators
headerTitle: Best practices for YSQL database administrators
linkTitle: YSQL database administrators
description: Tips and tricks to build YSQL applications
headcontent: Tips and tricks for administering YSQL databases
menu:
  v2.20:
    identifier: best-practices-ysql-administration
    parent: best-practices-operations
    weight: 10
type: docs
---

Database administrators can fine-tune YugabyteDB deployments for better reliability, performance, and operational efficiency by following targeted best practices. This guide outlines key recommendations for configuring single-AZ environments, optimizing memory use, accelerating CI/CD tests, and safely managing concurrent DML and DDL operations. These tips are designed to help DBAs maintain stable, scalable YSQL clusters in real-world and test scenarios alike.

## Single availability zone (AZ) deployments

In single AZ deployments, you need to set the [yb-tserver](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver) flag `--durable_wal_write=true` to not lose data if the whole data center goes down (for example, power failure).

> ## Allow for tablet replica overheads
> 
> For a universe with [RF3](../../architecture/key-concepts/#replication-factor-rf), 1000 tablets imply 3000 tablet replicas. If the universe has three nodes, then each node has on average 1000 tablet replicas. A six node universe would have on average 500 tablet replicas per-node and so on.
> 
> Each 1000 tablet replicas on a node impose an overhead of 0.4 vCPUs for Raft heartbeats (assuming a 0.5 second heartbeat interval), 800 MiB of memory, and 128 GB of storage space for write-ahead logs (WALs).
> 
> The overhead is proportional to the number of tablet replicas so 500 tablet replicas would need half as much.
> 
> Additional memory will be required for supporting caches and the like if the tablets are being actively used. We recommend provisioning an extra 6200 MiB of memory for each 1000 tablet replicas on a node to handle these cases; that is, a TServer should have 7000 MiB of RAM allocated to it for each 1000 tablet replicas it may be expected to support.
> 
> Manually provisioning the amount of memory each TServer uses can be done using the [--memory_limit_hard_bytes](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#memory-limit-hard-bytes) or [--default_memory_limit_to_ram_ratio](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#default-memory-limit-to-ram-ratio) flags.  Manually provisioning is a bit tricky as you need to take into account how much memory the kernel needs as well as the postgres and any master process that is going to be colocated with the TServer.
> 
> Accordingly, it is recommended that you instead use the [--use_memory_defaults_optimized_for_ysql](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#use-memory-defaults-optimized-for-ysql) flag, which gives you good memory division settings for using YSQL optimized for your node's size. Consult the table showing node RAM versus maximum tablet replicas to see how big of a node you will need based on how many tablet replicas per server you want supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
The flag use_memory_defaults_optimized_for_ysql is not avail in 2.20 so we can either remove this section or include the first half and say something like make sure size the VM accordingly taking into account the settings of the default_memory_limit_to_ram_ratio

- Use `TRUNCATE table1,table2,table3..tablen;` instead of CREATE TABLE, and DROP TABLE between test cases.

## Concurrent DML during a DDL operation

In YugabyteDB, DML is allowed to execute while a DDL statement modifies the schema that is accessed by the DML statement. For example, an `ALTER TABLE <table> .. ADD COLUMN` DDL statement may add a new column while a `SELECT * from <table>` executes concurrently on the same relation. In PostgreSQL, this is typically not allowed because such DDL statements take a table-level exclusive lock that prevents concurrent DML from executing. (Support for similar behavior in YugabyteDB is being tracked in issue {{<issue 11571>}}.)

In YugabyteDB, when a DDL modifies the schema of tables that are accessed by concurrent DML statements, the DML statement may do one of the following:

- Operate with the old schema prior to the DDL.
- Operate with the new schema after the DDL completes.
- Encounter temporary errors such as `schema mismatch errors` or `catalog version mismatch`. It is recommended for the client to [retry such operations](https://www.yugabyte.com/blog/retry-mechanism-spring-boot-app/) whenever possible.

> Most DDL statements complete quickly, so this is typically not a significant issue in practice. However, [certain kinds of ALTER TABLE DDL statements](../../api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/ddl_alter_table/#alter-table-operations-that-involve-a-table-rewrite) involve making a full copy of the table(s) whose schema is being modified. For these operations, it is not recommended to run any concurrent DML statements on the table being modified by the `ALTER TABLE`, as the effect of such concurrent DML may not be reflected in the table copy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most DDL statements complete quickly, so this is typically not a significant issue in practice. However, [certain kinds of ALTER TABLE DDL statements](../../api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/ddl_alter_table/#alter-type-with-table-rewrite) involve making a full copy of the table(s) whose schema is being modified. For these operations, it is not recommended to run any concurrent DML statements on the table being modified by the `ALTER TABLE`, as the effect of such concurrent DML may not be reflected in the table copy.
```

The link is slightly different in 2.20
